1.  
(i) Classify Programmming Language. Explain most common programming language translator.

(ii) Why is C general purpose language? Explain the importance of C?

(iii) Write down the important features of C Programmming. Explain briefly.

(iv) Write down the basic difference between structured programming and object oriented programming. 
    Define the terms: object, class, data abstraction and encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism. 

(v) Differentiate between structured programming and object oriented programming. 

(vi) What are the special advantages of C++ over C?

(vi) What is Machine Language? How does it differ from high level languages?

(vii) What do you mean by dynamic binding? How is it useful in OPP?

2. Distinguish between the following pairs:
(i) Global and Local Variable
(ii) Automated and Static Variable
(iii) getchar and scanf functions
(iv) %s and %c specifications for reading
(V) %g and %f specifications for printing
(vi) (*m)[5] and m[5]

3. 
(i) Write a general form of for statement, while statement and do while statement.
(ii) Draw the flowchart of the selection process of switch statement. 
Mention five rules for switch statement.
(iii) Differentiate between/basic difference Entry and exit control loop with relevant examples.
(iv) Explain about dangling else problem.

4. 
(i) Make a comparison between array and structures.
(ii) Why do we need a terminating null character in array? Discuss with examples.

5. 
(i) Define pointer and variable. Mention some benefits of using pointer.
(ii)How do variable names and symbolic names differ? Illustrate with examples.


6. 
(i) Explain different types of error in numerical computing.
(ii) Show that at any stage the subequent error is proportional to the square of the previous error.

7. What are trigraph characters? How are they useful?

8. Differentiate between interpreter and compiler. 

9. Describe the process of the call by reference. What is the purpose of using it in a program?

10. Define friend and virtual function. Explain the significance of friend and virtual function.

11. Differentiate between analog and digital computing. Explain the characteristics of numerical computing.

12. Explain the geometrical interpretation of Newton's Raphson method.

13. What is mouse? Distinguish between mechanical mouse and optical mouse. 
    Write down the main benefits of mouse.

14. Briefly describe about the construction and important features of dark disks.

15. Briefly explain - how does a CD-ROM drive read data from surface of a compact disk?
Why CD ROM drives are slow compared to hard disk drives?

16. Describe the working procedure of floppy disks.

17. Define operating system and mention its function. Explain single user/multitasking operating system.

18. Briefly describe the important features of Hard-Disks.

19. Differentiate between CD-ROM and DVD-ROM

20. Write short note on:
I. Master circuit board of computer
II. Flash Memory
III. ROM
IV. RAM
V. Main frame computer
VI. Super computer
VII. Workstations
VIII. Real-time operating system
IX. Magnetic Ink Character Reader (MICR)

21. Describe about the four basic number systems.
(i) Hexa 129A.B86 to decimal
(ii) Decimal 653.625 to binary
(iii) Binary 11100.1011011011 to Hexa
(iv) Hexa 7385.88 to decimal
(V) Decimal 109.7825 to binary
(vii) Binary 101101101110.1000110 to Hexa


